My life begins with Bliss. Jane Green introduced Bliss to me.
 Mrs. Green was the principle at Virginia Waters School 
 in St. John’s Newfoundland. She came from England.
Mrs. Green was in the classroom when I entered the room.  She taught spelling and math. I was 12 years old when I started at Virginia Waters School.  Mrs. Green had two students who couldn’t communicate one of them was me. She had the opportunity to go Toronto and learned about Bliss she came back and showed us about Bliss. She showed us how Bliss worked, I kind of liked and we watch the film about Mr. Bliss. God I must have saw it 100 times.
  I grew up with Bliss and I still use it. 
Bliss opened many doors. I could communicate my needs through Bliss. 

Jane was someone special to me, she came in my life through out the years. I loved car trips with Jane many of them to McDonalds.
 Now those times V.O.C.A. (Voice Output Communication Aids) wasn’t in my world. Jane always took the time to stop and talked. I was out of Mount Pearl by then Jane knew I didn’t like it. 
I learn Mrs. Jane Green die  

Explain exon house When all this happened I was living in a institution called Exon House.  There nurses   and counselors who help with school stuff. I had a  close friend named  Terry who took me to xhurch and her house.  This also when I met my close friend Alen. I remember he had long hair and a piece of rope tied around his wrist.I started  using Bliss with Alen. We could talk more than we did before. I remember  I had the word ‘pollution’ in my Bliss Book. I didn’t know what that word meant so Alen taught it to me.  Alen worked at the Exon House. But before he even came to work there and before I even had heard about Bliss, Alen used to come plan summer day trips for us at Exon House. We would play games with bean bags and go swimming. There was also a memory game, of course I always won. Nobody could beat me. I think Alen is a social worker now.  Sometimes I wonder where Aken and the gang  are now.

----------------------------------------------------------------

In 1977 Kathy and Dave took me out of Exon House, which was an institution. They were a couple from Nova Scotia. They were wait on someone when I got home.affter me They thought about getting someone else. They hired a girl named Sue to relieve them one weekend a month and one night a week. Sue was great. She was also from Nova Scotia. I always  joked about them being from the Mainland, because I was from Newfoundland  Those were good times We had a little puppy named Buddy. Kathy always hit the dog with the newspaper. More girls came to work with us.   When sue had leave and then Kathy got pregnant. 
After awhile they were thinking about get another girl

Kathy and I went on a trip to Winnipeg. After I graduated from school,  Kathy and I  went to Winnipeg.  There was a  conference. There were many people  who used augmentative communication. I met some great people there. There was a sweet little girl, Her name was Louise.  I  went over to introduce myself to her. She used a wheelchair, She was a very intelligent girl. So We had a big dinner. They were filming us for a documentary.  It was on Sue’s wedding. I don’t really know why they were filming her wedding, my guess is that it was because she was a Bliss user and Bliss communication was a huge deal at the time. Sue used her foot to communicate. Sue also worked hard.
Louise’s  friend named    her “blabber mouth” because she was always talking. Her friend was either her  mother or her teacher. 

The building that we stayed     in had all kinds of  flags. It was white. It had stairs. It was beautiful.  There were partitions in the lobby with information about augmentative communication on them for people to look at and find out about on their own.  We had barrels of fun. Those lovely times We had dinner I had tto explane what Bliss was to everyone that I met We also took a part in a movie They were a couple with cp. Her name wa sue O’dell.

Taught bliss to dave and Kathy, even made a bliss cook book with Kathy. I stayed with Kathy and Dave up until when I was 19 and had finished high school school.  

-----------------after high school went to OCCC for two weeks

Bloorview.

The first time I saw Shirley was through Plexiglass. She was pretty. I said, “That couldn’t be Shirley.” Sure enough it  was thee one and only Shirley. 

When I was nineteen years old I went to the Ontario Crippled Children’s Centre for one week to be assesed.    I thought Shirley was working with me but I got Lynette.
For a few days  I saw a social worker and this lady. So  Lynette  introduced me to herself and I liked her. 

When my week was up I went home. In September I went back for school.  Lynnette was my teacher and 
I had a teacher   named Marnie who taught me math and reading.  We  had some fun. I really liked her.  Lynnette  taught me math and how to add and subtract using money.   I was staying at the OCCC. I really enjoyed it there. All the girls shared one big room.  Every night we ate toast and tea.  We had a Halloween party and I won a big teddy bear.
The  social worker was Bob Masan, We got to know each other. Bob made me feel comfortable. we laughed. Bob was a sweet person. 
A nurse named Vicky. We got along well, When I had a question  I always went to her.


I learned life skills for three  months, cooking, washing clothes.  Then I went back home ST.John’s.

I have a nephew whose name is Roy. I also have a niece.
